



1 subscription tied to 1 tenant
1 tenant can have mutiple subscriptions
Email account cna be tied to different subscriptions
We can move subscription between tenants


If I have two active directory forest on prem,
then ideally I can syncronize 1 on prem AD to 1 AD tenant on  cloud.

AD forest is database of users/group/computers/OUs(Org units) etc


2 models of deploymnet
1) ARM Model: Reource manager model:latest with json support
2) Classic model: Azure Service manager model: older with xml

1 resource will always be part of 1 resource group. 
Resource can be created in 1 resource group logical container
Resource can be moved from 1 resource group to other resource group.


RBAC: Role based access control be put for resource, resource group and subsription but not on tenant

Use powershell ise for connecting to azure
To create new resource group:
New-AzResourceGroup -Name rg2 -Location "East US"

You can enable powershell on desktop as:
Install-Module -Name Az
Import-Module -Name Az
Login-AzAccount
Select-AzSubscription -SubscriptionId '<subId>'


ARM template to create resources:

Deploy custom template in Azure portal to create resource with ARM script



storage container has managed disk via containers, file shares, tables, queues  etc and needs a global name
storage disk is individual storage and does not have replication factor
Managed disk is PAAS component and storage disk is IAAS component


Virual machines billling is genrraly per hour for on demand instances.
Reserved cost is lesser than on demand
1) Spot
2) On demand
3) Reserved

2 cost factors:
1) Compute cost: ampunt of time VM is up
2) Storage cost: Incurred all the time based on storage selected


2 disks by default
1) OS drive C with max 2008 GB
2) Temproary storage D drive

When you add disk to VM, Add it and save it. OTherwise disk will not be created


Faultdomains means different rack
availbilitt set means vm is placed different fault domains

In planned maintenance activity, azure carry out maintains activity of update domain one by one.
So spread VMs in different domains.
In unplanned maintenance, a rack might go down and VMs in other fault domains will help.
And Azure carry out this responsibility.
It puts VMs in different fault domains and different update domains.
So you should aim for atleast 2 VM in avaiibility set to ensure high availibility of 99.9%


Choose availability set even there is only onw az in region.
With mutiple az, availability set is by default taken care by Azure


COnvert pem key to ppk by putty egenrator to connect to Azure


Auto registeration needs to be enabled on private DNS for VMs in a resource group to get auto added to DNS group.
OTherwise you will have to manually add A record for every VM

mimimum subnet mask you can have in cloud is /29 as 5 IPs are reserved for every subnet

service tag internet or 0.0.0.0/0 for internet ip in azure

Virtual network can peer with virtual 500 virtual network directly and are non transitive in nature.
With service chaining they can extend more wiht transivity with a hub network acting as forward, firewall, gateway
you can duplicate hun for high availability with loab balancer

MAx 500 VNET peering connection allowed
route table should be formed in the region in which you have subnet to be associated to route table


standard SKU load balancer gives you 1000 vms to balance and gives zones/region redundaancy

Load balancer works on layer 4 whereas application gateway works on layer 7.
Traffic manager is across region...application gateway is region specific

Like bashion host and application gateway we need a dedicated subnet with /27 minum ip range
Because withou creating a dedicated instance, application gaeway will not work
application gateway can be more secure on layer 7 security so preferred over load balancer for single site pool
for multi site pool, layer 7 filtering can be supported only for application gateway

Traffic amnager is DNS level load balancer and work across region
DNS is needed in trafiic manager even with static IPs.

Traffic amnager can be fornt of load balancer to support across region load balancing
Traffic amanger has autassigned DNS name

create a DNS in DNS zone with traffic amanger dns name. add  a C record with your website name to map your website name to traffic manager DNS name.


create web app is available through app services

ACU Azure compute unit....1000 ACU is equivalent to 1 core
ACU is combination of IOPS/CPU/

Powershell in azure creates a tempoary VM which we call local machine for that session

Create DNS record in azure for your wesite name
Copy nameserver records to domain name provided freenom.com
click Add custom domain and viadate to web app
DNS txt record gives ownership
A record gives hostname and host address
add both records to DNS records namse before adding custom domain to webapps











