
WRITETOSHARAT@GMAIL.COM
sharat.kanthi@gmail.com

With sensehat on pi 4, pi does not boot up without a hdmi connectivity.
Hack
# uncomment if hdmi display is not detected and composite is being output
hdmi_force_hotplug=1


car auto disagnostic scan tool
OBD app on phone

opencb, tensor flow, cloud services azure cognitive services, vision, speech, emotions etc for image identification

zig bee mesh netwrok for machine to machine communication

SPU is data acquistion system

Fritzing creates chip printed circuits by generating circuit diagrams from hardware setup like adruno board, led , resistors etc 

Microcontroller is used with this printed circuit chip to make a complete sensor

arduino nano, uno ,mega and node xu(wifi) are mega controllers.

You can mount bluetooth module and similar other modules to arduino micro controller.
Alll sensors you can attach to this micro controoler.

Then program micro controller to read data from sensors and act on them.

Arduino IDE software is used for programming audriono micro controller in C.
Sensors come with C libraries which can be used to read data.

program ca be uploaded from this ide to arduino board.
you can see output of sensor in ide console.

PIR sensor for infrared spectrum reading

sense hat is fit on gpio pins. General purpose input output pins
You can control voltage in each pin with a program on rapberry pi.

I can switch the ked by supplying 3v from gpio pin.

If i need to run motor of 12 volts, there is not enough power from pi that can be given to motor.
We use motor shield for this puropse with relays on top of pi.
The relays increase the voltage from 3v to 12 v

Shields have their own memory EEP ROM. The funtions of shields are already defined in shield.
SHield has 2 important properties seiral data (ID_SD) and serial clock(ID_SC).
As soon as shield is put on top of pi, it start drawing power from pi
And through data and clock pins, shielids like HAT will push inbuilt programs (dtf code) to pi.
Pi use these program functions to run shield functions.

Shields are used mostly for development.
And then design is productized as chips or cheaper solution with transistors/resistors.

install sense hat emulator, if required
sudo apt-get install python-sense-emu python3-sense-emu python-sense-emu-doc sense-emu-tools -y

You import different lib for sense hat and sense emu
sense hat: from sense_hat import SenseHat
sense emulator: from sense_emu import SenseHat

Python reference
w3school python programming
use raspberry pi ide idle(builtin), thonny(builtin) or pycharm

Sense Hat API link
https://sense-emu.readthedocs.io/en/v1.0/api.html

Strong board ESP8266 with wifi and act as computer
PLace it on top of node mcu. You can power it with 3 batteries generating 4.5 v
So any sensor like BLC with serial connection and no internet connectivity can be plougged with node mcu to get internet connectivity


MGD is popular media server for video handling

vnc username/password for raspberry is:
username: pi
password: abhi  (default: raspberry)
port: 3389 is default port for vnc

use firefox ESR for elenium on automation on raspberry pi

use port forwarding on wifi router to connect to raspberry pi application.

Volatile memory is computer storage that only maintains its data while the device is powered. ... 
Volatile memory contrasts with non-volatile memory, which does not lose content when power is lost. 
Non-volatile memory has a continuous source of power and does not need to have its memory content periodically refreshed.

RFID has non volatile memory wiht some programmable logic in IC to transmit/receive data.
when rfid antenana coil is subjected to magnetic field, it induces electrcity.
This current passed to IC on RFID and it transmits data with programming logic after receiveing current.

Active RFID tag will have battery powered circuit for longer range transmission.

Battery assisstive Passive tag is one where battery is there but only activated once RFID comes near a reader

Motor/actuator helps in physical movement of things
Tower Pro and Servo motor are two strong small motors.
Servo motots has fast moving motors and lot of gears.
These mitiple gear wheels converts lot of speed into a high toruque.

Sensor helps in sensing/reading data from things

Temp sensor code: https://www.raspberrypi-spy.co.uk/2015/04/bmp180-i2c-digital-barometric-pressure-sensor/#prettyPhoto

In LED smaller wire is negative, bigger (bent) wire is positive

GPIO Pins programming - RPI: https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/raspberry-pi-control-led/

DO MODULE 1,2 and 4. DO LABS
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/free/

MQTP and AMQP: AMQP is queing based protocol whereas MQTP is send message and forget kind of protocol

CloudMQTT.com platform to do IOT communication which provides endpoint to enable communication.

MGD is a media server
Azuere IOT hub can handle inense data with thousands of IOT whereeas MQTT is lightweight for mmore quick communication.

HiveMQ is free end point provider.


MosquiotMQTTBroker is a popular messsage broker which you can install on your computer or Pi for IOT communication


Say through a prorgam you send a message to microprocessor or microcontroller to switch on light, The MP/MC is connected to sensor thorugh pin.
THe MP/MC will send  voltage to a pin which trigger the relay and relay will switch on light.
The relay just complete the circuit. The motor will have its own independent power.
Transistor can also be used in place of relay. But relays are more reliable and does not heatup as muc as transistors.



google cloud developers service account
iotserviceaccount@iotproject-284404.iam.gserviceaccount.com

study ac to dc difference how 12 v dc maps to 220v AC current

Communcation between MC and client:
1)Wired from sensors to MC to client. Reader provided power to MC and sensors
2) Wireless from MC to network. 2.4 Ghz normal frequency with lower range. Frequency is high so more data can be transferred.
a) Short Range: BT, Wifi, 6LoWPAN(116 meter range works on IPv6), Zigbee(100m)
   Short Range ZigBee and LoWPAN allow us to create mesh network like smart connectivity inside multiple floor building with modules on different floor acting as intermediate gateway.
   BT becomes more energy efficient with BLE(Bluetooth low energy) Release 4 as it was not in alaways connected but only on need or periodically
   BLE 4 increase Bluetooth module with imprved header with dsitance and periodic connectivity increases BT module life to 4-5 years
   Wifi 802.11ah HaLow is for IOT devices with low frequency 900 mhz vs 2.4-5 Ghz for normal wifi. This increases range.
   Normal wifi module in phone and laptop will not connect to Halow.
   ESP8266 wifimodule supports 802.11ah frequency
   Zigbee operatres on 868 Mhz, 915 MHz and 2.4 Mhz with low intesity data and range from 10 m normally to 100m
   There is LTE stack for 6LoWPAN as well which use 800-900 Mhz
b) Long Range: LPWAN 10-12 km. Frequency from 200 - 900 MHz
   i) Laura Gateway
   ii) Sigfox (French)
   ii) NBIOT (Airtel,Vodaphone is providing it)
       NBIOT is now used as it can be shared and made public.
       Lora and Sigfox are outdated as their network is private and is expensive to manage local network.
       Some NBIOT module comes with integrated SIM with 3G/4G or you can put external SIM.
       NBIOT works on low frequency and high wavelength giving more range.
       With low frequency, we transfer limited data with special SIM cards
       There NB-IOT module for arduino board.
       
       
Zigbee protocol range for 10m to 100 m.
Initial major vendor for small IOT cips.
XBee chip for zigbee was inserted in device.
It provided ZCL Zigbee cluster librarary to do basic functions like turn onoff
Vendors add functions for their device using ZCL and its very popular for factory automation, homeautomation and electronics   
Xbee chips are very low power consuming as its not always on
XBee will come online and send data back to zigbee coordinator.
Same Xbee chip can act as coordinator, router or end device.
Connect through FDDI programmer.
Raspberry PI can have zigbee simulator and can control zigbee devices but cannot pe part of zigbee network
YOu can run AT commands or use XCTU
XCTU: Programming platform for Zigbee network


Delll 5000 edge router/gateway which has both edge routing capability such LORA/NBIOT etc and with main internet routing capability.


NBIOT(LTE), LTE CAT-0, CAT-1 for IOT. 
CAT-1 is only fully cellular IOT option at this moment(check on internet).
CAT -1 comes online only when required
FUll duplex supported 2 way communication in CAT-1
Half Duplex means only 1 way communication supported
CAT is more capabale and featuristic than NBIOT.
NBIOT supports basic communication with smaller packets and larger range
When you need capabilities supporting multiple devices you can go for LTE CAT for large amount of continuous data transfer
LTE Cat 0, Cat 1, LTE -M , NBIOT is the generation evolution of IOT communication specifications


DIGI is the leading provider of IOT devices.
DIGI manufacture cellular chips/devices which can insert IOT SIM and act as bridge for IOT communication.


ALll below LPWAN comapnies/vendors need unlicensed frequency range
LORA(Long Range) 710-720 Mhz, full duplex, 3oo bps to 50 kbps. Long lasting life.
SigFox(france): 868(Europe) 915 MHz(US) 100bps 5-25 km
WeightLess (Ubik): 800-810 100 bps 5 km in urban area
NBIOT

HTTP can be used for IOT communication but its a heavy restful protocol.
COAP(Constrained Application Protocol) is like a lightweight HTTP is used with 6LoWPAN over UDP.
Other messaging protocols MQTT, AQMP are used for IOT communication


PAHO, Mosquito is the broker for MQTT
AMQP is slower protocol than MQTT.
AMQP is used by NASA and Aadhar.
AMQP is more resilient than MQTT

Azure IOT hub
AWS Device Twin (or Device Shadow in AWS) is a copy of actual device having meta data of actual device.
Physcial Device/senosr sends the sensed data like Temp to Twin Device.
Rather than using MQTT we use device twin approach for secutiry, using cloud services, reliability of data transfer.
Twin device communicates with Physical device with SAS token for security

Microsoft also give devices which can directly communicate wihtout twin device with Device provisionin service.
Azure also provide firmware which you can put on your chip which will help physical  device to directly communicate wihtout twin device.

IOT 10 Edge is OS for IOT client gateway(like Raspberry Pi as edge Micro Processor) for sensors which will preprocess data from sensors and then send data to cloud.
IOT Gateway can be Raspberry PI with processing or wihtout processing like nodeMCU.

IOT protocol gateway is a fraemwork for IOT communication


on raspberry pi
pip install azure-iot-device
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/quickstart-send-telemetry-python

wget code.link

Put device endpoint connection string in code.






