edu
Dimensions/Table data are discrete data which cannot be broken in deciemal and no mathematical calculation makes ssense
Measures are continuous data and all mathematical stat methods can be used on it.

tabaleau packaged workbook twbx  will have evrything like data, graph,  visualization etc
tableau workbook twb will only have graph visualization etc but no data. so you need to share data also.
so save workbook in twbx format 

with tableau public you can share data in public folder on web but do not save any sensitive data as work is visible to everyone

  
WHAT ARE JOINS ?

1) INNER JOIN : COMMON OBSERVATIONS FROM BOTH THE TABLE : 

2) LEFT JOIN : ALL OBS FROM LHS TABLE AND ONLY MATCHING FROM RHS TABLE :

3) RIGHT JOIN : ALL OBS FROM RHS TABLE AND ONLY MATCHING FROM LHS TABLE : 

4) FULL JOIN : ALL OBS FROM BOTH THE TABLE , WHETHER MATCHING OR NOT : 

WHAT HAPPENS AFTER MERGING THE TABLES : 

OBS NO REMAINS SAME BUT VAR INCREASES : 

CONDITIONS: THERE MUST BE UNIQUE OR PRIMARY KEY IN YOUR DATSETS 

VAR NAME MUST BE DIFFERENT IN BOTH THE DATASETS 

WHAT IS APPENDING ? 

WHAT HAPPENS ONCE YOU APPEND ? 

OBS NO INCRESAES WHILE VAR REMAINS SAME 

CONDITIONS: THERE MUST BE SAME VARIABLE NAME IN BOTH THE DATASETS 


Data Blending is aggregation of data from two different source/queries
One is orimary dat source and other datasource is secondary

When you selecte data source with mutiple files, drag table in data source tab into right upper data area.

The file that you slect first for mesaure drop is considered as primary data source.
Sometime text attached to field might put valuein table/dimension  instead of measure. eg $ sign in front of cost. So remove $ sign and it will come in fornt of measure.


Highlights tab in show me is enabled if you have dimenison dropped in Rows and measure just selected in left hand data selection panel
In highlights, all fields will show same color with highest concnetration on max value.
-ve value will have different color.

Measure names gives all mesaures as columns when dragged in  column
You can also drop Mesaure names in filter to filter on measure name
Mesaure values gives all mesaure values when dragged in text ara labels


You can higlisght from measure value in Marks/Text area. Click on Measure and choose highlight
You can drop mesaures in Mark area different categories like color, size, label, detail, tooltip


stacked bar char: on top of each other
grouped bar chart: beside each other or next to each other


hyper extension in prep builder can support more data
Initially there was nly tde extension type in prep.
Both extension can be openend in Tableau desktop
prep can help you to rpepare data and visualization will be done in tableau desktop

Paritioning of data means dividing data into segments
Addressing means directionality of data calculation.
so addressing is either row wise or column wise calculation...
and expectation is that for row wise, each row has equal total value...
and for column wise each column has equal total value
Edit table calculation will give you option to show you adressing across or topdown 


Aggregate calculation at level of detail is LOD
LOD is always start with curly braces in calulation panel


Any field in table which has geogrpahical data show globe in front of the field in data pane.
This field can be used to represent fields on map.

In filled map you can addonly one measure.
While importing geo code keep only two file csn and scheme.ini(to consider number as String) in the folder from which you want to import.


Tableau maps uses openstreet maps for their data

WMS server map: http://ows.terrestris.de/osm-gray/service?

Box plot is also know as 5 number summary plot median,max, min, 1 quartile, 3rd quartile


When you apply background mage, please imput proper value of X and Y with correct width and height from image size.

Waterfall chart should both have positive and negative values to make an impact with display
Positive value are in downward...Negative value are in upward in gantt...so we cna use calculate field -Profit and drop in size

waterfall and pareto chart using runnng total in measure

In funnel chart we always to sorting

Use filter in dahsboard to link different charts in a dashboard.

Use tree map for hierarchical data


Script to use R language
SCRIPT_REAL(
    "library(mvoutlier);
    sign2(cbind(.arg1))$wfinal01", 
    SUM([Profit]))
=0 
THEN "outlier"
ELSE "normal"
END


Use Server->Publish workbook for publicshing your Tableau work to Tablea Server or Tableau online

A person who does not have Tableau can use free Tableau reader on their system or use server to view the report.

Project Questions
1) Using sample global superstore data I would like to  see sales view at the subcategories level  and I would like to see subcategories where sales  is greater than and equal to  500k  as high sales group and where sales is less than 500 k as low sales group .so how can we achieve this ?
2) Now in next step we want to make this range of 500k dynamic so how we will do that?  
3) I would like to forecast my monthly sales for 2016 and 2017 by using global  superstore data,  please filter for us county , how can I achieve this? and please generate the summary.
4) Using the global superstore data, create a Map chart displaying Profit and sales per Country. Apply a filter on Market (Asia Pacific) (use a symbol map).
6) I would like to see categories and subcategories based on profit , categories and subcategories based on sales  and categories and subcategories based on discount . Create a dashboard that consists of these 3 charts. Apply Dashboard action on filter and highlights , The dashboard should be fully interactive. Choose the generic desktop size for viewing the dashboard.
7)  As the stakeholders will be accessing the dashboard through company issued tablets, ensure that the dashboard is tablet friendly (iPad).
8) Create the stories from the above dashboard and the above three sheets  .
9) I would like to see the orders which are getting shipped on same day and orders which are taking more than 4 days to deliver to the clients . Consider order data and shipment date for this problem.

















